Rise of Calumet
Story summary

	The planet of Mara vhat, is caught between two alien races attempting to take the planet. The two races are: “the Takers” named because they take people, and “ the Tourturers” named because people come back malformed, and twisted yet alive. Both races have an interest in the planet for reasons unknown to each other or the natural inhabitants of the planet.

The Takers are large, greenskined, and very confident of their battle prowess. They tend to show their strength using melee weapons that are unknown to the planet's inhabitants. the takars are attemping to mine as much zetherium as posible, taking slaves to mine for them, the yhave a hold on the upper continant, and higly guard the zetheruim mines

The torturers are small misshapen, gold-scaled race. They have a rich artistic tradition. They are ancient, widespread, and powerful. They don't often kill, but prefer to mutate and twist their foes after knocking them out and abducting them. they do this to build armies, given the tourturers do no breed, but are cloned from a few original beings in theier socitiy. 
 
A human shapeshifter named Calumet  partnered with a Demon woman named Zera. Zera has looked into the future and seen that in time the takers will become the dominant species, waging war on the torturers, eventualy winning and taking the planet over. Calumet wants the world to thrive, and has found out through Zera, that he could drive the takers away by opening Ewedge Noct, and reliesing pymras and gindonath. Zera clamed to be able to sly the dragons and bring peace to the world. Zera is working for Neabaz the Herald of Lies, Neabaz is the one who told her to tell Calument this plan, in reality none can stop these dragons, it took a demi god to seal them away the first time. it will take no less this time. Nebaz is really just looking to insight chaos in  the world, he cares for no mortal life and wishes them dead. 

Calumet intends to open the Dimention of Ewedge noct, and unleash darkness and monsters like the world hasent seen in many centuries. He will do this only under certain conditions, making Calumet the ruller of the Monsters and the master of the darkness. Acording to Zera's plan, the dragons will die, and Calument will be able to order the monsters to stay inside for a time. 

The cosmic gnome and current servent of Baemmeath Flazdinvelt has noticed certain keys, start to move, one (the sword of dragons) is just gone from his view, and two others have gathered together. Flazdinvelt has found the two that move together are in the possession of the party. worried about the keys, He has gathered the group of adventures on the celestial plane, and asks them to find the other artifacts before whoever took the sword finds them.

While Calumet craves Chaos and destruction, he masquerades as a noble king, he declared his intent to get rid of the aliens, and has amassed a lot of followers, even coming to rule Serenity with a reputation as a king and benevolent king.

Part 1: 
Introduction
	Through two previous adventures. I used “The Mines of Phandelver” and “The hunt for the thesle hydra” the players are given “The Skull of Durian”, and “The Grail of The Hydra” as key items to start off the quest, and gain the intrest of the Quest giver.

	After finding the Grail, the party is transported to “The Celestial Plane” this particular area in the Celestial plane, is a 20’x20’ platform, filled with stacks of books in varying states of repair, a large brass telescope with many extra attachments, and one scatered looking, well dressed gnome Flazdinvelt. Flazdinvelt informs the party of the situation with the keys, he neglects to tell them where the dais is, but informs the party that the crystal wing is on Ambo -o kal, and the Onyx pearl is in Nencitime the water city. As a last piece of information, Flazdinvelt informs the party that king Calumet in Serenity is an Honorable man and will likely help with the Journey.
	Depending on the position in the world, the party will make their way to Serenity, typicly through Bourggrave.

murder in Bourggrave
on the way to Bourggrave the party is snuck upon while sleeping, a group of 1d10 goblins  attemps to steal anything they can, once a few have grabbed stuff they run, leaving less than half the goblins to fight. 

The party will soon come to the small farming town of Bourggrave. upon entering the towns people keep an eye on the party, the party is confrounted by Shawni Farsoar, the head of the sun guard. Shawni will inform them that they wont find trouble unless they make it, and encoureges them to go find some rest in the Black Didgeridoo.
Each player will get a dream
Avirus: flying through the sky, the clouds suddenly part and a large white dragons decends upon you, breathing a cold white flame. The sceene cuts and shows a harpy with one crystal wing standing in the desert surrounded by her kin.
za...za...la: a deep inky darkness, with small pangs of light in the distance, getting closer to the light you see a glowing dark ball sitting on a shell.
Both: a throne with its back to you, an old old woman in a black cloak
old woman: “master i have good news, They have agreed to the deal you offered them.”
man: “good i thought they might, i have tracked down more of the keys, we will have them soon”
old woman:” very good sir, shall i send my servants?”
man: “get them ready but wait for my order”
old woman ”very well” she takes a deep bow and come up staring at the players.

When the players wake up the find that the door outside has been smeared with blood. On the floor outsideis the body of a young man dressed in ragged clothes but bearing the symbol of the Moonwolf family. On his bidy there is a note that says the players names, and the words “we know you have the keys.”
Shawni will be investigating and tells the party not to leave unaccompanied by guard until she has found out what is going on. It may take some time to investigate if you want something to do there are a few jobs you can take on to help out the town. I think Haden moonwolf may have a some things to do, but i advise you to be cautuois with Haden.  

Shawni Farsoar has a few things the party could help with in exchange for information and gold
    1) there is a local band of goblins stealing from people. goblins
    2) A local farmer found one of his cows dead, exploded even. cows
Haden moonwolf aslo has some jobs of a shadier nature, but will not reveil them until he knows he can trust the party
    1) shaking down Kamo Kamo
    2) hunting a group of iron dogs that have been attacking the mines.iron hounds

Both Haden and Shawni can tell the party about king calumet, and that there are ways into the desert, but noththing more. Depending on how much the party shares with them.
-------first path through-----
 The players can investigate the murder themselfs, leading to rumers of a shady looking man seen coming from the area and running into the hills outside of town.
If tracked the party will find a man cloaked in dark gray robes, he hides at first and tries to surprize his fallowers. This man is named the Gray assassin, 
the gray assassin will attempt to kill the party. 
 the players can find a note on his body that says ”draw them out, kill them, and bring me the keys --- H.M. ps. Payment on compleation” the players will find a group of thugish looking people that they know as workers of Haden Moonwolf, kill them or take them in.
the party can accuse whoever they want. But Shawni will know who H.M. is. Haden will be prepaired for the accusation, and brush it off as anyone could have done it, or that those men went off agaist his orders. Shawni tell him he gets away with too much on such excuses. And that he needs to come to the sun guard station. Upon ariving there are about 20 workers standing outside the sunguard station preventing the party from taking in Haden. The rest of the sun guard can handle 10 of them, but the other 10 are left to Shawni and the party. 

after defeating the workers Haden is taken in and arested for the murder of the young man, and the players names are cleared.  

------second path through-------
the players can choose not to investigate but rather take on a job while shawni investigates. When the players return shawni will have discovered a type of poision in the body that is only used by certain advanced assasins, and a moniker that reads G.A.. Shawni will suspect the gray assassin, and inform the party that the assassin dose nothing without reason, the body was left were it was to send a message to the party.
--------wear the paths join------- 
As the players are leaving town names cleared, they will find a group on thier path,  8 moon wolf workers(bandits), 2 moon wolf childeren(thugs), and haden moonwolf(bandit leader) himself.  
Heading to Serenity
	haze woodland
	heading east along the dirt road, will take the party through the haze woodland. A forest know for its mysterious fog and disorienting arangement. In the woodlands lurk dagerus monsters although the trail is typicly safe. It is easy to get lost in here even on the trail, certain areas seem to repeat or turn around as your walking on them.  The forest takes about 6 days to walk through in either direction if one done not get lost. 
    1. On day 1 The party will run into a traveling carnival, and spend a night with them, partying and food abound, but also subtle thievery. In the morning the party is allowed to leave, finding that 50 gold has been taken from every player who doesn't not pass either a perception, intimidation, or performance. If the player succeeds on perception, they stop the thief and the party accuses this member of thievery publicly, if an intimation check is passed then they player is left alone, and if performance is passed they player will have a note in their pocket that reads “ to entertain performers, is a noble feat, and we thank you for bringing our spirits up, we want you to have these *one ticket to their next show* in serenity.
    2. Each day roll a d20 to see if you are going the right way 
        2.1. 1-3 turned around
        2.2. 4-7 the trees look the as they did an hour ago
        2.3. 8-15 going the right way 16-20 gain 2 hours of walking
    3. each day roll a d100 encounter.



After a few days of travle the part will see a trail off to the side of the road, there is a small creature made of light, speking sylvian, that becons the players closer, down the trail, it will say to fallow it to your destany, your friend may yet be saved. The creature guides them down a path the widens after a while, leading to a nice house, in a state of disrepair. The inside is in a state of disrepair: the creepy cottage

Coming upon the crossroad near the east end of the forest there is an old tatered sign post that points west ”Bourograve”, points east ”Restless Dunes”,and south “Serenity”
Summer solstice celebration
at the time there is a scarecrow holding balls of light, pointing to Serenity, and shouting about “ come one come all to the marvelous  Summer solstice celebration, food, games, and entertainment alike, come and take part in the best party in all the world.” the scarecrow shouts this while doing a festive jig and twirling.

There is a thin ragged looking man here hiding in the tree. He will tell the party that there is a large force building near the eastern path and that he was sent to scout. Any day now the serenity army should be marching on them, that is when he sends the report. He tells the party to head for serenity or back the way they came.
 
The party enters the town of serenity on the morning of a festival night. It is the Summer solstice celebration, the town prepares food, flowers, fireworks, games, and compititions to celebrate their ancestors, and Praise the gods. They set up stalls and games for entertainment, and shopping. The entire town is colorful, vibrant, and full of life. The battle dome has a full schedual of fights and one big torniment At the end of the day there is a ceramoney to bring in the coming Summer, all the citizens gather in the town square and pray to the center tree. They fill the branches with wards, and talismins.

When the party walks through the town gate, they are greeted by a festively dressed town guard.
Guard: hello travelers, and welcome to ...serenity, you have come at an opportune time, we are preparing for our annual Summer solstice celebration . Have a great time and enjoy the hospitality of both the people and our king Calumet.

The town is under construction, dozens of stalls are half built with people working on them. All the main buildings are in good conditions, but most are not open today. several game and food stalls are built and functional.flowers adorn every rooftop, colored powders are for sale at several stalls, and people are dancing in the streets.

Things to do
    1. Shopping
        1.1. Color stalls
        1.2. Trinkets d100
        1.3. General store
    2. Games
        2.1. Ring toss pillars of light that move
        2.2. Catch a Floobaus
        2.3. Bellowflumph
    3. Food
        3.1. Meat from many diferant cretures 
        3.2. butterd bagger balls
        3.3. Berry wine
        3.4. Chimera Cakes
        3.5. brownie stall
    4. Compatition 
        4.1. battle dome
        4.2. cook off
        4.3. farming contests
        4.4. pentathlon
    5. Festival
        5.1. Paper lantern ships
        5.1. Fireworks
        5.2. festive dance
        5.3. tree decoration

durring the tree decorating one decoration stands out, a small purple tasimin with an eye emblem seems to radiate divination magic. At the end of the decorating, a voice issues from the tree.
 the voice of the king:“ hail all citizens of serenity, the time has come  to bring in the comming summer with joy and hope. We have had much taken from us, some have lost thier homes, some thier family, and many more have lost thier lives. When the portals opened and the aliens came through, hope nearly died. But the survivors gather here and carry on, we have tried to pick up our shatterd lives. Do not lets dispaire and fear over come your spitit. Still i urge you, do not become complacent, the monsters that plauge our world are still here and will not stop until we stop them. This celebration also marks the night before we send our soldiers to the north, to Wruzenwend. We will take back the towns, and the slaves that have been taken.”
       
the morning after the festival the party will be summoned by King Calumet. He  will inform the party that a gnome named flazdinvelt told him of the quest, and that he would like to help, but with sending off so many soldiers the town will be hard to handle for a while, if you can do a job for me i can share what i know of the crystal wing. 
South of here there, past the sky city Mothalus, there is a building, an old ruin. It is concidered  place of great signifigance to historians, one of the few phisical remnants of the great war of the gods. In the last few months something has taken up residence there, and prevents scolars, and expidition partys of learning anything. It would greatly improve moral, and may teach us how to beter defend ourselfs, if we could reclaim the site.  If you can do this than i will share what i know. Please take this map king hands the players a map of the area.  Talking with mara. Mara wil give the players general advice for the area,and advises of the danger. The players will then haed to the giant robot(PDJ)



serenity after celebration
Durring the expadition to the PDJ:  Leoro the courupted wood elf, used her plant magic to take control of plants in the city. Through doing this much damage was caused to Serenity. The large tree in the middle of town is missing large bows of wood, that seem to have been hurled trough buildings. There are veggies everywere, that people seem hesitant of. Many people are hiding, and guards are stabing at cabbages. A man with a familier crest on his chest( the numnuts family crest) with 3 cabbages on a spear, thrusting his spear into the air, as if these were trophies.  

The party will be informed that the deserts are very dangerous, and provided with a “sand cart” a large iron box build onto a cart. A sand cart is extremely heavy and cannot be moved by humans, horses are exhaused very quickly, beacuse of this, sand carts are pulled by a team of 2 giant lizards. Origonaly found in the restlessdunes, giant burrower lizards are suted to its harsh enviroment. The sand cart is roughly 15ft wide x10ft long, and only about 5ft tall. 

to The Restless Dunes From Serenity
           Cart stats: hp 50, ac 19(lizards ac 16 hp 19) 
the party will have a chance to stock up on supplies, and then will head east to the restlessdunes

it takes 200 miles to get from serenity to the strom guarding the dunes. 60 hours at fast walking pace or one week at normal pace.
Each night fall will be dangerus, and the dm must roll for an encounter, or occurance. 
           
The first night is relitivly calm. 
The second day the players while walking will find a small camp of ogers near the road, that will quickly block the road and demand a toll of   “big food”, “or booze, one by the fire yells “ shut it, food and booze” a smaller one “poem” and is knocked in the head by the other. Toll: one “big food”, and one “big booze” the largest one has wears a loin clth and a leather chets strap, and holds a giant club, wit h5 goblin bodys swinging from it, each goblin is covered in spiked armor. (giant flail)
3 ogers: one with great flail (2d8)
“no food? me smash little cart if no food, eat lizzards.
Night 3-4 roll for encounters

           
The way into the restless dunes, is dangerous, there is a 200ft high 10 miles thick, storm that surrounds the dunes. This is the only way in, and requeres special accomodations to enter. 
With the sand cart it will take players  3.5 hours to get though the storm, by cart. And 1 hour for flying. 

roll for encounters

two ways through the storm, one only useable by harpies. First is the sand carts, a thick metal box fixed to a cart and pulles by giant lizards. Secondly a seceret path known only to harpies, and requiering the use of wings, by soaring with the storm, and avoiding debree the harpies can come and go as they please.

As the playes pass through they see a giant shadow, a dragon shadow, entering the desert. Half way through the strom the cart will be nocked aside by an adult copper dragon. The dragon stands roughly 25 ft tall, and 20 ft long by 15 ft wide, and dosent seem to even notcie the players, instead looking strait forward, at an approching storm giant. The massive brute standing 5’ taller than the dragon, but signifigantly thiner brandishing 2 enourmus broad swords. The cart is on its side only 100 ft away from this monumental scuffle. The players will need to get it back up, get the lizards under control, and get back on track. Meanwhile the giant charges the dragon, and hurls a lighning bolt at it. The dragon rears back and spews acid at the incoming bolt, causing an explosion, several loud smashes, and roars sound. The dust settels and the two figures are locked in combat. After a moment of slashed, bites gouges, and smashes the dragon opens his mouth and coveres the giants chest in acid, horrible noises that can be heard for miles blair as he collapes and hits the sand. 

Once free and clear of the humungus enemies, the players will travers the storm with mild isues, nothing sesoned adventures cant handle. 
Restless Dunes
Weather :  hot, dry, and windy

The desert is full fo dangerus creatures, many out for survival will attack anything, some thrive quite well, and can choose who to attack. From packs of jakels, to passing dragons, and mabey even a few swarms of insects. This land is rather dangerus.

after coming through the storm, the players will find themselfs, 25 miles away from the town known as deserts respite. A small town built for harsh desert weather, with places to house several stranger creatures including burrower lizards. 

Deserts respite is a small town, only about a mile wide, near an oasis. The oasis provides the water for the town, and a patch of crops sits near it. At the west end of town is a sable holding several lizards, Camels, and a few jakels. Mid town there are about 3 shops, a general store, a wisards shop, and a tavern. Only about 2 dozen people live here, as many dont stay in this miserable place long, there seem to be a few people passing through, but everyone looks kinda scetchy.

The players no longer need the cart, and will need to pay to have it stored until they depart the desert.   The players will need to wear cooling clothes, or risk heat problems.

The players will be offered a place to rest in the Comfertable inn at the extremely resonable rate of 40 gold per person per night. As well they are offered desert clothes for 30 gp per set. They will be given a meal at the inn for 10 gp  a peice, and drink is 2 gp per drink.( these prices are all inflated for travelers, could be talked down) and anyone wanting to rent a camel it is 90gp each, saddles cost 20 gp each( 110 per camel with saddle)


    • cacton the harpy vilage is south east of Deserts respite. about 3 days of travel
    • crossing the small border town in the mountains is just north of Desers Respite. About 1.5 days of travel
    • The forggoten library is far south of Deserts Respite.about 4 days of tavel
    • The warpost blockade is near the banding river south of cacton about 2 says of travel.
To The Underwater City
see the Onyx peral files






